Turnover
Business and Analytics Framing
Meeting Notes
4.24.2025

Summary: 
- Greg and Dave review the "Business Framing" and "Analytics Framing"	
- Change from "OSP wants..." to "Dr. Rothwell wants...." as the OSP is merely administrative.	
- The U has a subscription to the "Dimensions" data on researcher activity that could be used to define both high-potential and high-performing researchers.	
- Accessing the faculty database, now "Elements", could be prickly as people are more skittish during this environment of organizational change	
- Adjust the business case deliverable to something like "creating a strategy for managing turnover."

To Do:
- Change documents per feedback above.
- Conduct a "quick'n'dirty" or "back of the envelope" calculation to justify further effort into turnover, before sharing with Erin



Notes: 

Dean's don't know top ones; give em extra love. (?)

Tumultuous time and top researcerhs are poached.

Dave:  In Business Framing, not "OSP" but VP for Research wants to.


Exit interviews?  To get data from?
     
Can we develop our "high potential" criteria to inform recruiting?

Can we do this analsyis on "Dimensions" data?  Find high-performers and high-potential for recruiting?

Determine social impact:   Dimensions has their own LLM.  Something they've wanted to do (nice to have)

Greg also uses IRS on expenditures and money back into the local economy; multiplier on research $ has a 2.5x return etc


"Dimensions" data set.  Paid for; 3 yr contract.   Access via website and search; Greg/Dave has access to their warehouse to query against. 

We can use "Dimensions" to see where our turn-over left.

Greg:  Not scraping linkedin, but we could do Dimensions.  We'd only see their next publications or grants.

Patents? --> Also in Dimensions.

Northwestern using an NSF grant to build their own LLM model and they look at invention disclosures and people who "should" be doing invention disclosures and aren't.  But this project has been cancelled.


Dave: Skittish about faculty data, extra prickly during current change environment.  

"Scope creep" could happen very easily, turnover on all faculty.

Faculty at school of Medicine, Mission-Based Management, very limited access.  

Everyone else on "Elements", same company that owns "Dimensions".  Prior to "Elements" was UCV, home-spun and failed spectacularly.  Launched in Fed 2020.  Before UCV was FAR, "Faculty Activity Reports".  Now everyone is in Elements (Dentistry might not be in SOM.)

ACTIONS:
Movement in HR is all in the hands of the colleges.
Greg:  But if we did predict turn-over and they did leave, would it give us some credibility?

Dave:  A researcher here on a project went to AL, sick of winter.  
Bill:  We could figure out where "home" is, and distance to it (high school graduation? Undergraduate?  Graduate?)


Dave: Rothwell is seeing her job more as "strategy".  She gives a good strategy 

If business case for turn-over, and what it might be?


