Defining the population of principal investigators
6.30.2025
Meeting notes

PURPOSE:  The purpose of this meeting is to discuss how PI’s are identified, defined and tracked; and to discuss strategies to make sure the entire population is included in the analysis.

Action Items:
- Kaidon to identify all changes in PI's attached to awards or proposals by investigating changes in "PI_ASSIGNED".  Due to apparently good records this has an ETA of Thursday.
- Dave Howell to investigate creating a bridge table to manage changes in PI's assigned to proposals and awards going forward.
- Dave Howell to check a few things with Kristy Thompson:
	PI's:
	- Can anyone with the right job code become a PI?  They just have to submit a proposal?
	- Is there an application process to become a PI?  If so, what is the process and where are the records?  Who is turned down?
	- If there's no application and it's a self-selecting population (anyone with the right job codes can submit a proposal and call themselves a PI) -- does the Dean or anyone else have gatekeeping ability?  Can they discourage someone from being a PI?  Can they suggest a preference for one employee over another to become a PI?  
	Grants:
	- What does the data look like if an employee takes their proposal or award to a new institution?

Summary: 

- PI's are apparently a self-selecting population, where anyone with the right faculty codes can become a PI by submitting a proposal.  There are some exceptions where employees (not faculty) need approval.
  - Bill wonders:  Is there an application process?  Does the Dean or someone else have some discretion or influence?
  - Bill wonders:  Who is the population that could have or should have become a PI?  He could use machine learning to identify people that are similar to PI's and take a closer look. 
- On revising the history of PI's attached to an award or a proposal:
  - Dave finds that out of 65,000 records about 1000 have a PI change (AWARD_CHANGE_REASON == "PI change".)  At about 1.5%, that's large enough to require an approach where changes are more easily identified.
- Kaidon finds that the "PI ASSIGNED" table looks fairly complete and rigorous in its record keeping.  He'll look into changes.
- Although Bill would prefer all PI's and all co-PI's, the co-PI field is an optional entry, resulting in a high error rate.
- The U allows PI's to depart the U and take their proposal or award with them.  Dave will check on how this is managed by OSP processes and how it shows up in the data. 

PROCESS:  
  Discuss:  
      How does an employee get listed as a PI in the database?
      Could we be missing employees who departed and had their ID’s replaced in the database?
      How can we identify employees who could have been PI’s or who are nearly PI’s or who could have been PI’s?
      What are the validate-and-verify strategies of this population definition?
  Review document: 
       Project risk:  Changes in PI’s not tracked
PAYOFF:
  Develop a plan to rigorously and inclusively define the population of interest.


Notes:

PI's get listed because they submitted a proposal.

Some special permissions --
Have to be a faculty member or Exec Dir above or a special designation.

OTHERWISE --- any faculty can submit a proposal.
So a PI is a self-selecting population.

Bill:  What if someone was about to submit a proposal, but decided not to, and left?  That's the phenomena we'd like to study.  

Bill:  We could compare Dimensions to all of our former employees --

  Who had a great career after leaving here?
  Where do people go if they leave here?

Mabye that's a different project.

Bill:  Revising our history.  If they leave, we erased our PI who won the proposal.

Dave:  There is an "org change reason" that is "PI Change".

Kaidon: We could look at PROPOSAL_ID

AWARD_CHANGE_REASON has "PI Change"

Bill:  What's the scope? How many times do we have this reason? --> out of 65,000 rows, it has changed about 1,000 times.  About 1.5%

Bill:  What happens if they take their proposal and grant with them? --> The "end date" is when they leave the institution.

Kaidon:  Says he sees the PI change over time.  

(discuss tracking them)

Dave/Bill:  We could use the bridge table going forward.  But what could we do looking backwards?  We'd have to look at the comments or U-U Version ID's.  

Dave:  Kaidon to do some investigation using the "PI ASSIGNED" table and UU_PI_EMPLID

Kaidon:  What's the minimum information Bill needs? --> Every time a PI, or a co-PI changed, or then -ANY- emplid attached to a proposal or a grant.

co-PI? --> Dave:  Data is bad, so we often don't deal with it.  We can attach a "co-PI" to an award field, but it's optional and has errors.  


Discuss:  Leaving "co-PI" in the background for now, it's unreliable.

Thur/Fri or next week? --> Looks like it's pretty well tracked.  

Validate and verify?  How will we know we've got everyone?

Bill:  I could look at the faculty data and see things like who was hired at the same time, promoted at the same time, but one didn't submit a proposal.

Bill:  Who *applied* to become a PI and was turned down?

Dave: I'll check with Kristy Thompson.  Is there a white list?  Or do you just need a job code? She knows the data -and- the business processes really well.  I've asked some tough questions I'm still waiting on, like age discrepancies.

Kaidon:  Awards or proposals? --> Both.

Dave: Also checking with Kristy Thompson on what the data looks like if someone takes their proposal or award to the new place.  


